
# Dapr 0.10.0

It's been six weeks, and We're happy to announce the release of Dapr v0.10.0!

With Dapr approaching v1.0, our releases increasingly focus on operational concerns like stability, reliability, and upgradability in production environments.
As always, community and user requests and feedback are top of mind along with bug fixes.

We would like to extend our thanks to all new and existing contributors who helped make this release happen.

**Highlights**

* Support for multiple Pub/Sub components ([Publisher](https://docs.dapr.io/developing-applications/building-blocks/pubsub/howto-publish-subscribe/#step-3-publish-a-topic), [Subscriber](https://docs.dapr.io/developing-applications/building-blocks/pubsub/howto-publish-subscribe/#step-2-subscribe-to-topics)
* [Support for Windows Containers]((https://docs.dapr.io/operations/hosting/kubernetes/kubernetes-hybrid-clusters/)
* [New Bulk Get API for State](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/api/state_api/#get-bulk-state)
* [New Transactions API for State](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/api/state_api/#state-transactions)
* Highly available control plane on Kubernetes
* [Production deployment and upgrade guidelines for Kubernetes](https://docs.dapr.io/operations/hosting/kubernetes/kubernetes-production/)
* Improved [Go](https://github.com/dapr/go-sdk) and [Python](https://github.com/dapr/python-sdk) SDKs
* [Improved Dashboard with new features](https://github.com/dapr/dashboard)
* New CLI commands (view root cert expiry, export TLS certs, init on k8s with a custom namespace)
* New components: [InfluxDB binding](https://docs.dapr.io/operations/components/setup-bindings/supported-bindings/influxdb/), [Non-interactive OAuth2 middleware](https://docs.dapr.io/operations/security/oauth/#define-a-client-credentials-grant-component), [Azure Blob Storage state store](https://docs.dapr.io/operations/components/setup-bindings/supported-bindings/blobstorage/)

If you're new to Dapr, visit the [getting started](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started/) page and familiarize yourself with Dapr.

Docs have been updated with all the new features and changes of this release. To get started with new capabilities introduced in this release, go to the [Concepts](https://docs.dapr.io/) and the [Developing applications](https://docs.dapr.io/developing-applications/).

> **Note: This release contains a few [breaking changes](#breaking-changes).**

See [this](#upgrading-to-dapr-0.10.0) section on upgrading Dapr to version 0.10.0.

## New in this release

### Dapr Runtime

**Refactored** Kubernetes operator with Kubebuilder, allowing for multi-replica reconciliation (Thanks @yittg)

**Added** Windows containers support

**Added** support for multiple pub/sub components

**Added** Bulk Get API

**Changed** command line arguments

**Added** stdout log exporter (Thanks @brendandburns)

**Fixed** actors stability bug under high RPS

**Added** Windows e2e tests

**Removed** outdated third-party vendor docs (Thanks @yittg)

**Fixed** actor reminder firing twice bug

**Added** topic field to Pub/Sub cloud events spec (Thanks @allymparker)

**Upgraded** to use Go 1.15

**Removed** glog dependency and redundant flags

**Fixed** race condition in actor timers

**Updated** dashboard permissions Helm chart

**Fixed** test default values for `TARGET_OS` and `TARGET_ARCH`

**Added** CPU/Memory utilization for performance tests

**Added** ability to turn off telemetry for performance tests

**Fixed** sidecar not resolving secrets after first time installation

**Removed** state retry options

**Fixed** actor reminders overwrite bug

**Added** Grafana dashboards as part of release assets

**Fixed** `grpc_client_method` and `grpc_client_status` metrics tags always empty bug (Thanks @kirk91)

**Added** log entry on sidecar when API auth token is enabled

**Added** versioning scheme to component definition

**Updated** pub/sub to CloudEvents 1.0 spec

**Added** High availability option to Helm Chart

**Fixed** operator k8s service update bug (Thanks @yittg)

**Added** traceparent header in gRPC call

### Dapr CLI

**Added** support for multi pub/sub in `publish` command

**Added** command to export existing TLS certificates in a Kubernetes cluster

**Added** command to check on TLS root cert expiry date

**Changed** `dapr init -k` to allow for custom namespaces, HA mode and TLS enabled/disabled

**Changed** command line arguments to be consistent with `daprd`

**Fixed** version flag not uniform in standalone/Kubernetes modes

**Updated** helm message for `uninstall --all` command

**Added** webhook to trigger homebrew release

**Changed** init and uninstall behavior for self hosted mode

### Components

**Added** oauth2 client authorization middleware (Thanks @h2floh)

**Added** Azure Blob Storage state store (Thanks @ksivamuthu)

**Added** InflubxDB output binding (Thanks @gbaeke)

**Added** TLS support for MQTT pub/sub (Thanks @kumaya)

**Fixed** SQL Server data serialization issue with gRPC

**Fixed** RabbitMQ pub/sub consumer exclusivity bug

**Updated** output bindings operations list

**Added** Metadata field to transactional state request

**Fixed** SQL Server connection leak issue

**Updated** Kubernetes events input binding with new payloads

### Java SDK

**Added** multi pub/sub support

**Updated** k8s annotations, CLI options and daprd arguments

**Updated** API to support HTTP extensions

**Removed** retry options from state

**Fixed** gRPC manager not shutting down

### .NET SDK

**Added** multi pub/sub support

**Updated** actor usage docs (Thanks @tomkerkhove)

**Updated** proto package with Any type (Thanks @akkie)

**Fixed** null reference exception when no model binder provided (Thanks @altinoren)

**Added** Bulk Get API

**Updated** k8s annotations, CLI options and daprd arguments

**Removed** retry options from state

**Added** api token injection

### Go SDK

**Added** multi pub/sub support

**Removed** retry options from state

**Updated** k8s annotations, CLI options and daprd arguments

**Added** server side callback wrapper

**Added** Bulk Get API

**Added** state transactions API

### Python SDK

**Added** multi pub/sub support

**Updated** k8s annotations, CLI options and daprd arguments

**Added** wrapper methods for state store APIs (Thanks @chinzhiweiblank)

**Added** wrapper layers for gRPC

**Added** server side wrapper for app callback

**Added** actor service via fastapi

**Added** wrapper methods for secrets API

**Added** wrapper methods for pub/sub API

**Added** wrapper methods for bindings API

**Added** support for api token auth

### Rust SDK

**Added** multi pub/sub support

**Updated** k8s annotations, CLI options and daprd arguments

### JavaScript SDK

**Added** multi pub/sub support

**Updated** k8s annotations, CLI options and daprd arguments

### Docs

**Added** Kubernetes production deployment and upgrade guidelines

**Updated** multi pub/sub parts

**Updated** k8s annotations, CLI and daprd arguments

**Fixed** broken KEDA link (Thanks @tomkerkhove)

**Updated** with new IntelliJ instructions for multiple dapr runs

**Updated** API reference with state transactions API

**Updated** API reference with state bulk get API

**Updated** Kubernetes events input binding

**Updated** troubleshoot section for configuring multiple replicas to the Kubernetes sidecar injector

**Updated** state API reference to remove retry options

**Updated** links to reference to new quickstarts repo

## Upgrading to Dapr 0.10.0

If you're upgrading from an older version of Dapr to 0.10.0, follow the steps here to ensure a smooth upgrade. You know, the one where you don't get red errors on the terminal.. we all hate that, right?

### Local Machine / Self-hosted

Uninstall Dapr using the CLI you currently have. Note that this will remove the default $HOME/.dapr directory, binaries and all containers dapr_redis, dapr_placement and dapr_zipkin. Linux users need to run sudo if they have installed binary in default path /usr/local/bin/ or have docker command needing sudo.:

```bash
dapr uninstall --all
```

Next, get the latest CLI following [these](https://github.com/dapr/cli#installing-dapr-cli) instructions, or alternatively download the latest and greatest release from [here](https://github.com/dapr/cli/releases) and put the `dapr` binary in your PATH.

Once you have downloaded the CLI, run:

```bash
dapr init
```

Wait for the update to finish, and you're good to go!
Make sure you have the right runtime version (0.10.0) with:

```bash
dapr --version
```

### Kubernetes

#### Upgrading from 0.9.0

If you previously installed Dapr using Helm, starting with this releases you can now upgrade Dapr to a new version.
If you installed Dapr using the CLI, go [here](#starting-fresh).

*Note: For this release only, you will not be carrying your old certs over due to a [breaking change](https://golang.org/doc/go1.15#commonname) in Go 1.15. To see the full documentation regarding upgrading Dapr, see [here](https://docs.dapr.io/operations/hosting/kubernetes/kubernetes-production/#upgrading-dapr-with-helm).*

##### 1. Get the latest CLI

Get the latest version of the Dapr CLI as outlined above, and put it in your path.
You can also use the helper scripts outlined [here](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started/install-dapr/#install-the-dapr-cli) to get the latest version.

##### 2. Upgrade

First, update your Helm repos:

```
helm repo update
```

Run the following command to upgrade Dapr:

```
helm upgrade dapr dapr/dapr --version 0.10.0 --namespace dapr-system --reset-values
```

Wait until all the pods are in Running state:

```
kubectl get pods -w -n dapr-system
```

Verify the control plane is updated and healthy:

```
dapr status -k
```

Next, issue a rolling update to your Dapr enabled deployments. When the pods restart, the new sidecar version will be picked up.

```
kubectl rollout restart deploy/<DEPLOYMENT-NAME>
```

All done!

#### Starting fresh

If you previously installed Dapr on your Kubernetes cluster using the Dapr CLI, run:

*Note: Make sure you're uninstalling with your existing CLI*

```bash
dapr uninstall --kubernetes
```

It's fine to ignore any errors that might show up.

If you previously installed Dapr using __Helm 2.X__:

```bash
helm del --purge dapr
```

If you previously installed Dapr using __Helm 3.X__:

```bash
helm uninstall dapr -n dapr-system
```

Update the Dapr repo:

```bash
helm repo update
```

If you installed Dapr with Helm to a namespace other than `dapr-system`, modify the uninstall command above to account for that.

You can now follow [these](https://docs.dapr.io/getting-started/install-dapr/#install-with-helm-advanced) instructions on how to install Dapr using __Helm 3__.

Alternatively, you can use the CLI:

```
dapr init --kubernetes
```

#### Post installation

Verify the control plane pods are running and are healthy:

```
dapr status -k

dapr-sentry            dapr-system  True     Running  0.10.0    1d   2020-08-18 10:15.21
dapr-operator          dapr-system  True     Running  0.10.0    1d   2020-08-18 10:15.21
dapr-sidecar-injector  dapr-system  True     Running  0.10.0    1d   2020-08-18 10:15.21
dapr-placement         dapr-system  True     Running  0.10.0    1d   2020-08-18 10:15.21
```

After Dapr 0.10.0 has been installed, perform a rolling restart for your deployments to pick up the new version of the sidecar.
This can be done with:

```
kubectl rollout restart deploy/<deployment-name>
```

## Breaking Changes

### Multi Pub/Sub

With the v0.10.0 release, we have added the support for multiple pub/sub components. That means that you can now publish and subscribe to topics arriving from different components.

To this end, several changes have been made to both the publisher and consumer sides.

#### Publisher

An additional parameter has been added to tell Dapr which pub/sub component you're targeting.

Old API:

```
POST http://localhost:<daprPort>/v1.0/publish/<topic>
```

New API:

```
POST http://localhost:<daprPort>/v1.0/publish/<pubsubname>/<topic>
```

#### Subscriber

*Note: The following example in in Javascript but applicable to all languages*

An additional `pubsubName` field has been added to the subscription payload to tell Dapr which pub/sub component this subscription is for.

Old subscription:

```javascript
app.get('/dapr/subscribe', (req, res) => {
    res.json([
        {
            topic: "newOrder",
            route: "orders",
        }
    ]);
})
```

New subscription:

```javascript
app.get('/dapr/subscribe', (req, res) => {
    res.json([
        {
            topic: "newOrder",
            route: "orders",
            pubsubName: "messagebus"
        }
    ]);
})
```

Changes have been made to the different SDKs, so make sure to get the latest version of the SDK you're using.
Specifically, the subscription structures have added a `pubsubName` field and the publish methods take the `pubsubName` argument.

#### CLI

The `publish` command on the Dapr CLI now takes a required param `--pubsub` to specify the pubsub component:

```
dapr publish --pubsub pubsub --topic myevent --data '{ "name": "yoda" }'
```

### State retries

The retry options for state operations have been removed. If you've never used retries, this is not a breaking change.
The updated API references can be found [here](https://docs.dapr.io/reference/api/state_api/).

### Java SDK

The Service Invocation method now accepts an HTTPExtension argument.

Old method call:

```java
client.invokeService(serviceAppId, method, message);
```

New method call:

```java
client.invokeService(serviceAppId, method, message, HttpExtension.NONE);
```

### CLI install path

The command `dapr init` will now install the runtime binary `daprd` into `$HOME/.dapr/bin` for Mac/Linux and `%USERPROFILE%\.dapr\` for Windows.
In addition, the `--install-path` argument has been removed from the `dapr init` and `dapr uninstall` commands.
