# June 2019 (0.1.0-alpha)

This release of Dapr focuses mainly on the engineering system capabilities of the Dapr Runtime and the Dapr CLI.
Several bug fixes and new Actor capabilities were introduced.

* Added Makefiles for build and test
* Allow ```/dapr/<id>/<method>``` to invoke a local app
* Added versioning to the Runtime, CLI and the Assigner
* Added architecture diagrams
* Controller configuration to externalize runtime docker image

This release is available now - see [how to update](/docs/supporting/howtoupdate.md) to get the bits.

Read on to find out about the new features and learn how you can be more productive using Dapr.

## Make Files

With the addition of the Makefile, you can now perform the following:

#### Run tests tests

```
make tests 
```

#### Build

Build all to all platforms:

```
make build
```

Build for a specific platform:

```
make build TARGETS=linux
```

#### Pull dependencies

This will install Dep if it doesn't exist on the local environment.

```
make deps
```

## Local service discovery

Fixed a bug where calling an Dapr ID running on the same machine as the caller would not work.

## Runtime and CLI versioning

The release versions are now getting baked inside the Go code when using the Make files. Otherwise, the version is ```edge```.

## Architecture diagrams

Added two diagrams depicting Dapr in a Kubernetes environmnet and Dapr in a standalone non-containerized environment.

## External controller configuration

The image of the Dapr Runtine injected by the Kubernetes operator was until now hardcoded.
An environment variable named ```RUNTIME_IMAGE``` for the operator container now sets the Docker image used for the sidecar container.
