# July 2019 (0.2.0-alpha)

This release of Dapr focused on improving the testability, supportability, extensibility and ability
 to contribute along with additional Actor capabilities. It also includes several features, such as the 
 ability to install Dapr via Helm, Pub/Sub with Redis Streams and API versioning.
 
- Kubernetes Helm Chart – Users can now install Dapr via Helm
- Pub Sub  with Redis Streams – Implementation of the spec : users can publish/subscribe to topics using Redis Streams
- Output bindings – Implementation of the spec: users can now invoke the Dapr bindings API to use output bindings
- Delete State API – Can now delete state for apps/actors
- Changed Event Sources to Components – consolidate different Dapr components under a single CRD with a dynamic, open spec
- API versioning – The Dapr API is now versioned
- Configurable logging – users can select the level of logging verbosity both for the runtime and the Dapr k8s operator
- Samples – end to end samples for Kubernetes and Standalone modes
- Various Kubernetes improvements – Support for non-default namespaces, allow users to set custom IP or DNS for a pod
- Actor deactivation – Actors now get garbage collected by the Dapr runtime. This feature exposes different configs which can be set by different Actor SDKs
- Event Hubs binding – support for Consumer groups and filtering by message age
 
### Known issues
 
- If using actors, any app calling Actors must be deployed in the cluster before the Actors.

## Release

This release is available now - see [how to update](/docs/supporting/howtoupdate.md) to get the bits.

Read on to find out about the new features and learn how you can be more productive using Dapr.

## Make Files

With the addition of the Makefile, you can now perform the following:

#### Run tests tests

```
make tests 
```

#### Build

Build all to all platforms:

```
make build
```

Build for a specific platform:

```
make build TARGETS=linux
```

#### Pull dependencies

This will install Dep if it doesn't exist on the local environment.

```
make deps
```

## Local service discovery

Fixed a bug where calling an Dapr ID running on the same machine as the caller would not work.

## Runtime and CLI versioning

The release versions are now getting baked inside the Go code when using the Make files. Otherwise, the version is ```edge```.

## Architecture diagrams

Added two diagrams depicting Dapr in a Kubernetes environmnet and Dapr in a standalone non-containerized environment.

## External controller configuration

The image of the Dapr Runtine injected by the Kubernetes operator was until now hardcoded.
An environment variable named ```RUNTIME_IMAGE``` for the operator container now sets the Docker image used for the sidecar container.
