# Dapr 0.3.0-alpha

We're happy to announce the release of Dapr 0.3.0-alpha!

This version includes many changes to the Dapr Runtime and Kubernetes Operator, focusing on enabling tracing and diagnostics, improved actor support, improved state operations, conformance to the Dapr API spec and more.

## Dapr Runtime

**Added** support for granular state management for Actors, conforming with the regular state endpoints for saving multiple key/value pairs for a given Actor ID.

**Added** the ability to pass in custom HTTP headers from the client all the way to an invoked service destination.

**Added** reminder capabilities for Actors. An actor can now schedule persistent reminders that span across failures or rebalancing of nodes.

**Added** timer capabilities for Actors. An actor can now schedule a non persistent timer to invoke a specified callback method.

**Added** distributed tracing. Dapr now integrates with Open Census / Open Telemetry for tracing and telemetry. Users can configure different settings and exporters using a Configuration CRD.

**Added** profiling using Go pprof as an HTTP endpoint, allowing users to enable profiling mode and start on-demand CPU/Memory/Allocs profiling sessions either in Kubernetes or Standalone modes.

**Improved** state restoration for actors, allowing the runtime to fetch a state by a given key instead of sending the entire state on activation.

**Added** delete state API. Users can now delete state using a key.

**Added** multi-item transactional support for state. Users can now perform transaction across multiple operations, for example: Delete/Upsert.

**Added** explicit error messages and error codes from the Dapr API.

**Added** API endpoint to get actor reminders.

**Improved** logging actor runtime messages.

**Fixed** Dapr Runtime panicking when a remote call arrives but the user doesn't have a port specified on their app.

**Improved** the URL structure consistency for several API endpoints.

**Improved** dependency management by moving from Dep to Go Modules for the Dapr Runtime.


## Kubernetes

**Changed** Dapr Controller to Dapr Operator.

**Added** a sidecar injector component using a Kubernetes Mutating Webhook Admission Controller.

**Added** The ability to annotate an Dapr sidecar for profiling.

**Changed** the way to specify a port from looking at the first port in the first container to an explicit `dapr.io/port` annotation.

**Improved** Operator code by simplifying logic and delegating responsibilities to the sidecar injector.


## .NET Actor SDK

**Added** CI build process with Nuget publishing.

**Added** the following implementations:
Actor registration,
Actor activation/deactivation,
Method invocation,
Reminder/Timer firing,
Actor state management,
Add routes for activation, deactivation, method, reminder, timer invocation.

**Added** actor to actor RPC calls using an Actor Proxy.

**Added** actor to actor non-RPC calls using an Actor Proxy.

**Fixed** throwing an AggregateException to an UnwrappedException.

**Changed** the name of the repository from `cs-sdk` to `dotnet-sdk`.

**Changed** nuget package which is now split to Actors and Actors.AspnetCore.


## Docs and Samples

**Changed** samples to conform to new API changes.

**Added** a pub-sub sample for both Kubernetes and Standalone modes.

**Added** architecture diagrams to samples, detailing the specific components in use for that particular sample.

**Fixed** Python subscriber logs not showing up.

## CLI

**Improved** output messages and init progress when installing Dapr in Standalone/Kubernetes modes.

**Added** stop command to stop an Dapr/App instance pair using the `--app-id` param.

**Fixed** a port collision that prevented a user from running two Dapr instances simultaneously in Standalone mode.
