# Dapr 1.15.4

This update includes bug fixes:

- [Fix degradation of Workflow runtime performance over time](#fix-degradation-of-workflow-runtime-performance-over-time)
- [Fix remote Actor invocation 500 retry](#fix-remote-actor-invocation-500-retry)

## Fix degradation of Workflow runtime performance over time

### Problem

Running a Workflow app multiple times would cause the performance of the Workflow runtime to degrade significantly over multiple runs.

### Impact

Workflow applications would not complete in a timely manner.

### Root cause

There was an issue whereby Scheduler client (daprd) connections where not properly pruned from the connection pool for a given Namespace's appID/actorTypes set.
This would lead to jobs/actor reminders being sent to stale client connections that were no longer active.
This caused Jobs to fail, and enter failure policy retry loops.

### Solution

Refactor the Scheduler connection pool logic to properly prune stale connections to prevent job execution occurring on stale connections and causing failure policy loops.

## Fix remote Actor invocation 500 retry

### Problem

An actor invocation across hosts which result in a 500 HTTP header response code would result in the request being retried 5 times.

### Impact

Services which return a 500 HTTP header response code would result in requests under normal operation to return slowly, and request the service on the same request multiple times.

### Root cause

The Actor engine considered a 500 HTTP header response code to be a retriable error, rather than a successful request which returned a non-200 status code.

### Solution

Remove the 500 HTTP header response code from the list of retriable errors.
