# Dapr 1.10.3

This hotfix release contains two bug fixes.

- [Fixes Dapr starting without middlewares when one component in the pipeline fails to init](#fixes-dapr-starting-without-middlewares-when-one-component-in-the-pipeline-fails-to-init)
- [Fixes handling of "continue-as-new" for Dapr Workflows](#fixes-handling-of-continue-as-new-for-dapr-workflows)

## Fixes Dapr starting without middlewares when one component in the pipeline fails to init

### Problem

When Dapr sidecars are configured to include middlewares, either for the "Dapr" HTTP pipeline or for the "app" HTTP pipeline, a failure in initializing one of the components in the pipeline caused Dapr to start without _any_ middleware configured for that pipeline, with only a warning-level log shown.  
Instead, Dapr should have respected the `ignoreErrors` property of components (with a default of `false`) to decide if the sidecar could have started without that _individual_ middleware (like for any other kinds of components). Additionally, if `ignoreErrors` is `true`, only the failed components should have been excluded from the pipeline, and the other ones should have continued to be included.

### Impact

The issue impacts users on Dapr 1.10.2 and earlier who use middleware components, for both the "Dapr" HTTP pipeline and the "app" HTTP pipeline.

### Root cause

In the Dapr runtime, the methods initializing middleware components behaved differently from the methods that initialized all other kinds of Dapr components.  
For middlewares, the value of `ignoreErrors` in the components' spec was ignored and assumed to be `true` in all cases; the default should have been `false`. With `ignoreErrors` set to `false`, the Dapr sidecar should have refused to start if one of the middlewares failed to initialize.  
If a component had `ignoreErrors` set to `true`, instead, Dapr should have continued initializing excluding only the impacted component; instead, the runtime was excluding all components in the middleware pipeline when one failed to initialize.

### Solution

We have changed the methods that initialize the HTTP middleware pipelines to be aligned with the behavior of the other component kinds. Tests have been added to prevent future regressions.

## Fixes handling of "continue-as-new" for Dapr Workflows

### Problem

In the first releases of Dapr 1.10, a bug was preventing Workflows from working when using the ["continue-as-new" feature](https://docs.dapr.io/developing-applications/building-blocks/workflow/workflow-features-concepts/#infinite-loops-and-eternal-workflows). In this situation, workflow activity invocations would fail with a "duplicate invocation" error. This would cause the workflow to stall indefinitely.

### Impact

This issue impacts users on Dapr 1.10.0-1.10.2 that are using Dapr Workflows (alpha) and want to build workflows that use "continue-as-new".

### Root cause

An error in the implementation of Dapr Workflows prevented caused the "continue-as-new" feature not to work and the workflow invocations to fail as if they were duplicate.

### Solution

We addressed the underlying issue in Dapr 1.10.3 and added more tests to prevent future regressions.
