# Dapr 1.14.5

This update includes bug fixes:

- [Fix content type metadata from query for outbox transactions](#fix-content-type-metadata-from-query-for-outbox-transaction)

- [Fix oracle database not working with RAC](#fix-oracle-database-not-working-with-RAC)

- [Fix oracle database requiring admin rights when not required](#fix-oracle-database-requiring-admin-rights-when-not-required)
 
## Fix content type metadata from query for outbox transactions

### Problem

Outbox transactions were not respecting the metadata in the transaction request.
For example, content type specified in the metadata was not being applied and the message was being sent as plain text.

### Impact

Outbox transactions were not respecting metadata.
Cloudevents Middleware was unable to parse the metadata, resulting in 415 error codes.

### Root cause

Metadata in the request was not being applied to the transaction.

### Solution

Read the metadata from the request and apply them to the transaction.

## Fix oracle database requiring admin rights when not required

### Problem

The Oracle database should not require admin rights to init the component and discover if an existing state table already exists.

### Impact

Users assigning non-admin roles to the DB user would get an error upon component initialization.

### Root cause

The SQL query used to check if a table exists required admin rights.

### Solution

The SQL query was changed to not require admin rights.

## Fix oracle database not working with RAC

### Problem

When connecting to Oracle RAC, requests to the database cluster would return with an error.

### Impact

Users cannot use the Dapr Oracle database component with Oracle RAC.

### Root cause

The underlying library version did not support RAC.

### Solution

The library was updated.
