# Dapr 1.10.7

## Fixed an issue in Kafka components with SASL authentication

### Problem

When attempting to connect to Kafka compatible services like Azure Event Hubs using SALS authentication the connection fails with the message "client has run out of available brokers to talk to."

### Impact

The issue impacts users on Dapr 1.10.x who use Kafka components to connect to Azure Event Hubs. Other Kafka compatible services may be impacted too.

### Root cause

The latest versions (1.38.X) of the shopify/sarama kafka library introduced this problem.

### Solution

Downgrading the shopify/sarama library to release 1.37.2 resolves this problem. An issue with the maintainers of the sarama library has been created for further investigation.

## Fixed an issue with HTTP URL routing in Dapr sidecar

### Problem

When using the Dapr sidecar HTTP APIs, some HTTP URLs where not being routed to
the correct handler, for example, when prefixing the URL path with duplicated
slashes. i.e. `//v1.0/actors/DemoActor/1234/method/SetReminder`.

### Impact

Requests which did not have perfect paths according to the API may be routed to
the wrong API handler, and typically return some kind of error.

### Root cause

The root HTTP request handler was not normalizing the request's HTTP path before
passing it to the router to evaluate which handler to execute the request. Note
that, the path _was_ normalized by the time it reached the underlying API
handler.

### Solution

Use the `URI().SetQueryString` and `URI().SetPath` functions, rather than the
raw `SetRequestURI` function of the fasthttp context Request in the root HTTP
handler.
