# Dapr 1.12.3

This update includes bug fixes:

- [Fix dissemination of placement tables](#fix-dissemination-of-placement-tables)
- [Fix SQL Server state store not working with correctly case-sensitive collations](#fix-sql-server-state-store-not-working-correctly-with-case-sensitive-collations)

## Fix dissemination of placement tables

### Problem

Placement nodes acquire a lock, disseminate the tables, and release the lock in parallel. The Placement stream disconnects before the dissemination of tables.

```
Error invoke actor method: failed to invoke target x after 3 retries
```

Placement server logs:
```
level=error msg="Stream is disconnected before member is added
```

### Impact

Impacts users running Dapr 1.12.0-1.12.2

### Root cause

Dissemination did not use a background context. The logic to acquire a lock, disseminate the tables, and release the lock were all occurring in parallel.

### Solution

Updated the Dapr Placement service to use a background context and follow a 3 step process to acquire a lock, disseminate the tables, and release the lock.

## Fix SQL Server state store not working correctly with case-sensitive collations

### Problem

When using a database with a case-sensitive collation, the SQL Server state store component did not work correctly. Certain operations, including those relied upon by the actor state store, were failing.

### Impact

Impacts users of Dapr 1.11.0-1.12.2

### Root cause

A stored procedure referenced a column named with the wrong case. This was causing errors on case-sensitive databases.

### Solution

We updated the stored procedure so it does use the correct case for column names.
