# Dapr 1.10.8

## Fixed Dapr accepting components with impossible names in standalone mode

### Problem

When running in standalone mode, Dapr would parse and accept components which
had impossible names, making them unusable.

### Impact

Impacts users running Dapr <= 1.10.7 in standalone mode.

### Root cause

Dapr was not validating the component name when running in standalone mode.

### Solution

Added validation of the component name when running in standalone mode.
Components with impossible names will be rejected during startup.

## Fixed an issue with service invocation path decoding

### Problem

Encoded path segments in service invocation requests (e.g.
`http://localhost:3500/v1.0/invoke/myapp/method/MyMethod%2F1`) were being
decoded by Dapr before being passed to the application. This meant the path
could be routed to the wrong app, or the app would receive a decoded path (
`MyMethod/1` in the example above) instead of the encoded path.

### Impact

Since v1.10.7, requests to service invocation endpoints with encoded path
segments may be routed to the wrong app, or the app will receive a decoded path
instead of the encoded path.

### Root cause

The Dapr HTTP server was decoding the path before passing it to the application.

### Solution

We changed the Dapr HTTP server to pass the path to the application without
decoding it.

## Fix panic in service invocation when connection to target sidecar fails

### Problem

When performing service invocation, a Dapr sidecar could have experienced a panic if the connection to the target sidecar failed to be established.

### Impact

This issue impacts users on Dapr 1.10.0-1.10.7.

### Root cause

The issue was due to improper error handling of failures to connect to a target sidcar.

### Solution

We improved the error handling routines to prevent panics in case of errors while establishing a connection to a target sidecar.

## MongoDB Actor State Store: Fixed an issue with storing Actor Reminders

### Problem

Actor Reminders without data were stored incorrectly and the empty (null) data was subsequently interpreted as a string value. Everytime an Actor Reminder was updated it reencoded the existing encoding, causing exponential growth in ActorReminder data leading up to the MongoDB document size limit. Other problems include the incorrect storage of the actor reminder period.

### Impact

Since v1.10.5 (and also in v1.11.0), Actor Reminders used with MongoDB as Actor State Store were effectively unusable. While some reminders written or updated with affected versions may work, all reminders written with the impacted versions should be considered unrecoverable as some reminder data will have been lost or corrupted.

### Root cause

In 1.10.5 we addressed several actor reminder performance problems through a significant refactor.
We updated the way Actor Reminders are serialized and stored in actor state stores, relying on JSON serialization using
a custom JSON Marshal function. This worked great for all actor state stores except for MongoDB which insists on BSON serialization
instead of JSON.

### Solution

We implemented a custom BSON Marshal function for our Actor Reminder struct so that the MongoDB state store can correctly serialize ActorReminder data.