# Dapr 1.13.6

This update includes the following bug fixes:

- [Fix Duplicate AWS Auth Field in Postgresql](#fix-duplicate-aws-auth-field-in-postgresql)
- [Fix AWS Secrets Manager and Parameter Store components when working with more granular IAM permissions](#fix-aws-secrets-manager-and-parameter-store-components-when-working-with-more-granular-iam-permissions)

## Fix Duplicate AWS Auth Field in Postgresql

### Problem

When selecting "AWS: Access Key ID and Secret Access Key" as the authentication profile for PostgreSQL, multiple fields for "AWS AccessKey, AWS Region, and AWS Secret Key" appear.

### Impact

Dapr would throw an error for duplicate metadata field.

### Root cause

During the build process, the built-in authentication profile was appended unnecessarily, leading to these redundant fields.

### Solution

The build logic was modified to eliminate this redundancy, preventing the duplication of metadata fields.

## Fix AWS Secrets Manager and Parameter Store components when working with more granular IAM permissions

### Problem

When using AWS Secrets Manager and Parameter Store daprd would fail on initialisation if the IAM policy would only allow access for certain secrets.

### Impact

Dapr wouldn't be able to start if the IAM policy would only allow access to certain secrets.

### Root cause

On initialisation daprd would try to verify access to the AWS Secrets Manager and Parameter Store services by trying to read a dummy secret which would fail if the IAM policy in place would only allow access to certain secrets.

### Solution

The additional check was removed.
