# Dapr 1.10.10

This update contains the following security fixes:
- [Security: prevent Sentry and Injector from applying the `daprsystem` Configuration from a non control plane namespace.](#security-sentry-and-injector-only-apply-daprsystem-configuration-from-the-control-plane-namespace)


Additionally, this patch release contains bug fixes:

- [Fixed returning of HTTP status code in HTTP service invocation with resiliency enabled](#fixed-returning-of-http-status-code-in-http-service-invocation-with-resiliency-enabled)
- [Fixed handling errors for Actors with special HTTP header](#fixed-handling-errors-for-actors-with-special-HTTP-header)

## Security: Sentry and Injector only apply `daprsystem` Configuration from the control plane namespace

### Problem

Sentry and Injector will apply the `daprsystem` configuration from a non-control plane namespace if the namespace name is alphabetically higher than the control plane namespace name.

### Impact

Accidentally or maliciously, a Kubernetes user can write a Configuration in a non-control plane namespace that will be applied by Sentry and Injector.
This can re-write the Sentry CA, disable mTLS, or otherwise bring down the entire Dapr cluster.

### Root cause

Sentry and Injector currently list Configurations, before matching on the list for the `daprsystem` Configuration, without filtering for namespaces.

### Solution

Update Sentry and Injector to only get the `daprsystem` Configuration from the namespace where the Dapr control plane is installed, instead of listing all Configurations.

## Fixed returning of HTTP status code in HTTP service invocation with resiliency enabled

### Problem

With Resiliency enabled, in case of HTTP service invocation, if one application sends error status codes (HTTP codes <200 or >=400), Dapr returns a response with a generic 500 error, instead of the actual response error code.

### Impact

Applications will receive the wrong status code in case of HTTP service invocation returning a failure error code with Resiliency enabled.

### Root cause

A bug was discovered in how errors were handled when Resiliency was enabled, causing all errors from the application to be "swallowed" by Dapr.

### Solution

Resiliency code now returns the correct status code to the application.

## Fixed handling errors for Actors with special HTTP header

### Problem

The Dapr's .Net SDK returns actor exceptions via a special response with the exception serialized in the response body and adding the `X-Daprerrorresponseheader` HTTP header. This exception was not handled correctly starting at version 1.10, resulting in a generic error message at the calle's side.

See https://github.com/dapr/dapr/issues/6339

### Impact

Actor exception details are lost and a generic message is returned instead.

### Root cause

Retry logic in sidecar was dropping the error details returned by the actor method.

### Solution

Fixed the retry logic to save the error's payload and return it in the end of the actor invocation logic.