# Actions Preview Kit 0.2.0 Release Notes

This preview kit includes many improvements and new features such as Actor, Distributed tracing, Profiling, and enhanced side car injection, and offers new Actions .NET SDK.

## Contents

* Actions CLI - v0.1.4-alpha
* Actions .NET SDK - v0.3.0-preview01
* API spec
* Samples
* Documentation

### Actions CLI

**Improved** output messages and init progress when installing Actions in Standalone/Kubernetes modes.

**Added** stop command to stop an Actions/App instance pair using the `--app-id` param.

**Fixed** a port collision that prevented a user from running two Actions instances simultaneously in Standalone mode.

### Actions Runtime

**Added** support for granular state management for Actors, conforming with the regular state endpoints for saving multiple key/value pairs for a given Actor ID.

**Added** reminder capabilities for Actors. An actor can now schedule persistent reminders that span across failures or rebalancing of nodes.

**Added** timer capabilities for Actors. An actor can now schedule a non persistent timer to invoke a specified callback method.

**Added** distributed tracing. Actions now integrates with Open Census / Open Telemetry for tracing and telemetry. Users can configure different settings and exporters using a Configuration CRD.

**Changed** Actions Controller to Actions Operator.

**Added** a sidecar injector component using a Kubernetes Mutating Webhook Admission Controller.

**Added** profiling using Go pprof as an HTTP endpoint, allowing users to enable profiling mode and start on-demand CPU/Memory/Allocs profiling sessions either in Kubernetes or Standalone modes.

**Added** The ability to annotate an Actions sidecar for profiling.

**Changed** the way to specify a port from looking at the first port in the first container to an explicit `actions.io/port` annotation.

**Improved** Operator code by simplifying logic and delegating responsibilities to the sidecar injector.

**Added** the ability to pass in custom HTTP headers from the client all the way to an invoked service destination.

### Actions .NET SDK

**Added** the following implementations:
Actor registration,
Actor activation/deactivation,
Method invocation,
Reminder/Timer firing,
Actor state management,
Add routes for activation, deactivation, method, reminder, timer invocation.

### Samples

**Added** a pub-sub sample for both Kubernetes and Standalone modes.

**Added** architecture diagrams to samples, detailing the specific components in use for that particular sample.

### Documentation

**Added** [getting started with actions .NET sdk](https://github.com/actionscore/previewkit/blob/master/docs/sdk/dotnet-sdk/get-started-actions-actor.md).
